[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
[Applause]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Wisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, sometimes I
read 20th century Chinese history and uh
>> sometimes
>> just a little.
>> No, there's here's something I don't
understand. Like, you know, I read about
the Mao era or the Dang Xiaopang era and
all the various cowgers, they're all
like, "Oh, we're like guilty of like
committed like a left deviationism or
right deviationism or all this stuff."
And they're all really worried about
whether they're going to get expelled or
something like that. And I never like
know what any of these words mean. Like
I actually feel like I have no intuitive
understanding of how like elite level
Chinese Communist Party politics works
and I think I probably should given the
sort of like growing stakes and the
growing awareness with which we as
Americans all have to be aware about how
China works.
>> Wait, if you're reading lots of China
history books, you must know what
self-criticism is, right? I know what
criticism is, but I don't know why
they're like, "Oh, you engaged in
revisionism or you engra engaged in
ultralleftism or you engaged in
ultrarightism." And I don't know what
any of these terms mean.
>> Well, my experience of China is that
sometimes the rules are a little sketchy
on purpose, right? So that there isn't a
clear definition so that you can kind of
go after whoever you want. You know what
I I do to learn about Chinese history?
>> Tell me.
>> Chinese historical dramas. I kind of
love them.
>> Do you mean like plays or books or
>> No, no. I mean uh TV shows. Probably the
equivalent of watch soap operas in the
States.
>> Do you have a favorite?
>> Oh, I have one I'm watching right now.
I'll tell you afterwards. It's so good.
But the reason I bring it up is because
relatively recently there was a
historical drama that was all about
Xihinping's father.
>> Oh, I saw some screenshots from that. I
think someone like uploaded it all to
you. Have you watched it?
>> I haven't. I I've been looking for it
and I haven't been able to find it. So,
if you find it on YouTube, let me know.
But the reason I bring it up is cuz
we're going to be speaking about his
life today to the author of one of his
biographies, the first English-speaking
biography. And the series itself
>> got panned when it came out. It was
really funny. And there were some quotes
that said, "Oh, I think Chinese youth
today would rather watch Stranger Things
than learn about the history of the
CCP." So, we're going to try to make CCP
history as interesting as Stranger
Things on this podcast.
>> And we're also, I guess, going to make
the case maybe to American listeners and
maybe some Chinese youth if they're
listening that it's worth learning
about, right? Like whether it's
interesting or not, it's like, okay,
it's the year 2025. Do we need to like
revisit the history and Yanan or the
Northwest Provinces or whatever? All
this stuff. Is this really important?
Anyway, we obviously have the perfect
guest. We're going to be speaking with
Joseph Trigan. He is a research fellow
at Stanford's Hoover Institution and an
associate professor at American
University. And he is the author of a
new book, The Party's Interests Come
First: The Life of Xi Jang Shun, Father
of Xihinping. Joseph, thank you so much
for coming on OddLabs.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> Why are we interested or I guess you Why
were you Why is anyone interested and
worth spending time to learn about the
life of Xi Jang Shun? You know, while I
was listening to your conversation, I
was thinking about how one of the things
that Xiinping is trying to achieve is
make the regime immortal by having
people study party history. He believes
that one of the ways to keep the party
vigilant and dedicated and at one with
the people is to learn from the legacy
of the revolutionary. So what that
history is, teaching that history as
moral education is at the very heart of
Xiinping's project. So that begs the
question, what was that history? And I
tried to tell it through the prism of
his own father with my book.
>> So one question I always wanted to ask a
sort of CCP expert is why would anyone
want to join the party in the sort of
1940s, 1950s, 1970s? I understand that
hindsight is 2020, but looking back,
first of all, no one knew how this was
all going to turn out. And secondly, it
seems like your life as a sort of minor
party official could be very, very
tricky and very dangerous in some ways
to Joe's point about things like
self-criticism and getting in trouble
for leftist deviations or rightist
deviations or whatever. It doesn't seem
like a fun time.
So I think that breaking down your
question a little bit would be
meaningful. What decade you joined the
party can tell you a lot about that
person and also why you stay in the
party can be very different from why you
joined in the first place because often
you don't know what kind of organization
it is and you don't know what's going to
be coming. But I think that at the heart
of what you're getting at is why would
you join an organization that is so
dangerous to be a member of? Either
because you're fighting a revolution
against a vastly superior force or
because there are so many power
struggles within that party. One of the
answers is that for these people,
communism wasn't just a way of
understanding economics. It wasn't just
about Marxist dialectics. It was really
a source of meaning and purpose in their
lives. It was joining an organization
that for them was a manifestation of a
world historical inevitability and it
was exciting. It it gave them agency. It
gave them a sense that their lives
mattered. And of course they were often
joining the party at moments when they
felt that the entire nation was at risk
of falling apart because of warlords and
bandits and western and Japanese
encroachments.
>> I forget what decade it is. But there's
another reason that even people today
get excited about radical politics and
that is sex and dating and they think
it'll make them attractive to members of
the opposite sex. You mentioned that in
your book that that was one of the
appeals for the very early communists.
>> So it's interesting how politics and the
personal mix often for members of the
Chinese Communist Party. So there was a
political background, there was a social
background. He was born 2 years after
the collapse of theQing dynasty. He saw
all of these battles between
nationalists and bandits, nationalists
and communists. And it would have been
even just
visibly striking for him to grow up in
this area because he grew up near Xian
which many of your listeners must know
as where the Terracotta soldiers are
from. And that's because the first
unified Chinese state was forged near
where he was born. And so he would have
seen just how far his country had fallen
from these amazing heights during the
Tong dynasty. And so for him he didn't
really understand the intricacies of the
ideology. He wasn't really attracted to
Marxism from an intellectual
perspective. But as he and other people
had written about or talked about later,
it was just kind of cool to be more
radical, more leftist because there was
a sense that the country really needed
something drastic to be able to find its
feet.
>> Can you talk a little bit about how he
rose up through the party ranks in the
sort of early days because this is
always a question. So first of all, the
goal of the Communist Party as you
mentioned is sort of always changing in
one way or another or certainly the way
they execute on it seems to be quite
flexible. And so I'm very curious how a
sort of junior level politician or party
member gathers influence within the
party and basically what qualifies as a
good job to get them ahead.
>> Yeah, that's a great question. So, one
of the dilemmas that my book tries to
explore is what does it mean to be a
deputy in a system that puts so much
focus on a strong leader and discipline?
So, people might wonder, why would I
read a book about someone who wasn't the
top leader of the Chinese Communist
Party? Isn't this just an organization
where people do what they're told? But
actually, it's so much more complicated
than that. And it's complicated for lots
of interesting reasons. One is that the
top leader often will give a general
sense of what they want to achieve, but
they won't say what matters more and how
to achieve it. And then so the deputy
has to figure it out. They have to be
loyal to what the top leader wants, but
also not screw everything up entirely.
There's other competitors that might not
like you. You also have to be aware of
the fact that often the top leader will
change their mind. So all of these
things are what members of the party
have to manage and Xi Jun stands out for
his ability to keep winning over famous
senior men within the party. So he was
not one of the oldest of the founding
generation, but he really impresses you
with his ability to find these big
brothers over and over again who saw
something in him that they admired. Hm.
>> One thing I really got from reading your
book and you mentioned Xihinping himself
as part of his own goal is to have the
younger generations learn more about
party history. Hence the drama that
Tracy mentioned. One thing I really sort
of deeply internalized reading your book
is how young the country is, how young
the party is, and I mean there is a
sense in which Mao is like Xiinping's
uncle. I mean you say the word big
brother in terms of like Xi Jang Shun's
ability to find these sort of brother
figures. It's still a very close It's a
very close family. These people were
like right there at the very beginning
that Xiinping knew and was growing up
with.
>> Yeah. So, one of the things in the book
that I think is really
>> quite significant is how long these
people knew each other, right? So the
book begins in the 1920s and Xi Jang
Shun's uh a major figure through the
early 1990s and these names keep coming
back over and over and over again and
they they knew each other for so long
and the intricacies of these
relationships
are really something. So in the west
we've often seen this habit of dividing
the party between good guys and bad
guys, reformers and conservatives,
leftists and rightists. And one of the
things that emerges from my research is
that they were so subtle the way they
interacted with each other. So they were
kind of fremies in a way, right? So they
all had loyalty to the party, but the
way that the antagonism shifted, the way
that the loyalty shifted, it was
something that was very prote.
>> Talk a little bit more about that
because I think when people certainly in
the west hear about the Chinese
Communist Party, they often think of
factionalism and all these cadres that
are sort of in secret rooms forming
different groups with different goals.
Did that actually happen?
So, I'm a skeptic about how useful the
idea of factions can be for
understanding the Chinese Communist
Party. Now, I don't want to go too far.
It definitely matters who you worked
with, whether you work in the same
organization,
that kind of thing. But the reason
Leninist parties are known as
organizational weapons is because they
are so leader friendly and because there
is such a taboo about any concerted
political action by certain groups. Now,
sometimes they approach that level of
coordination, but they have to be so
careful because as soon as the top
leader identifies that, then they're
going to be in big trouble. But also,
people are people. So, you can have more
liberal views on some issues, more
conservative views on other issues. Just
because you worked with someone doesn't
mean that you're going to like them. So,
often the people who are, as I
mentioned, these relationships are
shaped by what happened decades
previously, they have long memories. And
if you worked with someone, you didn't
get along, that can be meaningful many,
many, many years into the future, too.
[Music]
I mentioned this at the beginning, but I
remember when I read the uh recent
biography from a few years ago of Dun
Sha Pang and then also a recent Joe and
Lie biography. They're always like
trying to read Ma's mind, right? Like
they're on there like, "Oh, and are we
guilty of leftism or rightism or
whatever?" And I can never really figure
out do we take the correct line? Do we
take the people's line? Whatever. What
does leftism mean? They're always
getting accused of leftism. I thought
they're all leftists. They're
communists. But what is actual what did
they mean it when they said that someone
was taking like the leftist line in the
CCP and that that was bad in some way.
>> Good question. So when you look at
Chinese texts when they talk about
leftism and rightism, leftism is always
in quotation marks, right? So what is
leftism? In theory, leftism basically
means that you're too ambitious. You're
moving forward too quickly. you don't
recognize the objective conditions and
therefore you're making a hash of things
because you're trying to achieve what is
not possible at that particular time.
Now, at the same time, leftism is part
of the
part of what makes the Chinese Communist
Party because of this phenomenon known
as campaigns, right? So, what's a
campaign? A campaign means you get
people to go too far deliberately
because you need to get them to go too
far because the whole point is to jin
people up, to get them excited, to
inspire zeal. So you expect that things
are going to go too far. Now for these
people who are the deputies, typically
when they go too far and then there's a
rectification, they're not punished for
it because there was an always
expectation that there was going to be
some mistakes that you're going to break
a few eggs, right? Nevertheless,
because this was a system that took
ideology so seriously, when there were
differences of opinion, often they
weren't understood as such. They were
seen as manifestations of a deeper
political problem. And as you were
alluding to in your introduction, one of
the reasons Mao and Dung were so
powerful is because they got to decide
what was leftist. They got to decide
what was a line error. And so often the
reason we think that there are factions
is because the top leader decides after
the fact to label a bunch of people as a
group and say that they represented some
kind of political view. But almost
always what really happened is that
these people just simply weren't in line
with the chairman and they weren't
guessing correctly what he wanted and
they were punished for it and then they
were given this label.
>> Why didn't Ma just issue clearer
instructions?
>> Yeah. Good question. Part of it was
about the succession, right? So,
Chinese top leaders always are thinking
about what's going to happen after they
die and they don't want their model to
disappear with them. And so, they're
testing their deputies. They're trying
to figure out whether their deputies can
do the right thing on their own. And so,
they don't always want to be clear
because they want to see what you do.
But also, the top leaders change their
mind all the time. They're mercurial.
They can watch a situation and decide
that things aren't going the well that
they wanted and then they don't say that
immediately to see whether or not other
people are going to realize that on
their own. But also, I think that by
leaving some ambiguity, they can see
whether or not you are going to use that
space to do everything you can to remain
loyal to the top leader or whether
you're going to show some of your own
inclinations which you may or may not
like as the senior leader. Let's talk
about the trajectory of Xi Jang Shun's
life a little bit more. A big part of
your book is these fights over over
history and they're obsessed about like
getting the exact history of right of
Chinese and the Northwest Territories
and who is where when etc and who is
influential etc. Why was this so
important? These sort of fights over
specific details of history and then how
did that culminate ultimately in 16
years in which he was sort of extremely
punished and banished and basically cast
out of the party and humiliated and all
the horrible things that happened during
the revolution.
>> Two reasons primarily. One is for a top
leader your legitimation narrative is to
say I was always on the right side of
the debate. And so when you make the
case for why everyone should listen to
you, whether or not your version of
history is affirmed has a lot to do with
whether or not you are seen as someone
who deserves to be the chairman. And the
second reason is that the party is a
totalizing organization. Right? So your
entire sense of self-worth, your
prestige, your status, your sense of
meaning is how the party characterizes
your contributions to the revolution and
to the regime after it's established.
So history in that sense is absolutely
existential for them. And I think that
also when it comes to, as I said, this
preoccupation with whether the regime
will survive,
you need to win the hearts and minds of
young people by talking about the party
as an organization that went from one
victory to another because it was the
only way of organizing society that can
guarantee China's return to its rightful
place on the world stage. Right? So for
all of these reasons, history is so
important. And so when you're purged
from the leadership and you're doing
self-criticisms, what are these
self-criticisms about? Well, it's a
reflection of your own personal history.
So when Xi Jun spent 16 years in the
political wilderness after he was
purged, what he was writing about was
his past over and over and over again
and negotiating with the top leadership
just exactly how what he had done
previously was going to be officially
evaluated.
You know, you mentioned the word
frennemy earlier, and as a former
teenage girl, frenemies is something
that is of perennial interest to me. And
when I think about famous frenemies in
the past. Do you like the segue? Yeah, I
do.
>> All right. When I think about famous
frenemies in the past, I kind of think
about the Soviet Union and China in the
50s and 60s. And one of the interesting
things about the elder shei is that he
was for a while in charge of basically
managing China's relationship with
Soviet experts at the time. What was
that experience like for him? How tricky
was that to actually do? And was it
useful to him in later years having had
that experience? So in 1953 the most
prominent slogan in the people's
republic of China was the Soviet Union
of today is China's tomorrow and in fact
that also was the year that Xiinping was
born and his father Xi Jong was minister
of propaganda. In subsequent years when
Xi Jong Shun was working for Joan Li at
the state council, as you said, one of
his tasks was to manage the Soviet
expert program. And for a period of
time, the number one priority was to
learn wholesale from the Soviet Union.
And it was rooted in this idea that
there was only one way of doing
communism.
But Maadong increasingly came to the
view that something had gone deeply
wrong with the October revolution that
the Soviet leaders were engaging in
revisionism. And I know you were
chuckling about this word uh earlier.
What is this communist jargon? And
revisionism basically means you're not
really a true communist anymore. That
you are not as
>> actually leftist as you need to be,
right? You're not pushing forward.
you're too scared to to try to win new
victories for the revolutionary agenda.
And so Xi Junction would have witnessed
this story. He would have witnessed how
Maudong gradually came to the conclusion
that the Chinese project was going to be
different. And he also would have seen
something else, which was how dangerous
it was to talk to people outside the
Chinese Communist Party, especially
foreigners. because one of the
accusations against him in 1962 other
than as you said that he was trying to
revise history was that he was a spy for
the Soviet Union. So it would have been
very frightening for Xi Jong Shin to
manage relations with the Soviets.
Right? So the first great purge of the
people's republic of China was a man
named Gao Gang and he was another
northwesterner. He had known Xiang for
years. Oh, this is come to believe that
exactly Mao came to believe that Ga was
a spy for the Soviet Union in 1959 at
the famous for Chinese historians Luchan
Penum when the defense minister Pong
Deai made critical remarks of the great
leap forward. He also in Mao's mind only
did that because of his special
relationship with the Soviet Union and
he saw some some machinations there and
Pong Dehai was the commander on the
northwest battlefield and Xi Jong was
his right-hand man. So uh Si Jun was
basically a forest gump for the two
first great purges of the people's
republic of China and they both were
seen by Mao as having had illicit
relations with the Soviet Union and then
he is purged in 1962 as well. I'll say
one other thing about this which is
quite remarkable. So the first
split that was really something that the
Chinese and Soviets had trouble managing
happened while Xi Junction was visiting
the Soviet Union.
>> And what had happened was there was an
altercation on the border between China
and India, the first one. And several
Indian soldiers were killed. And while
Xi Jongun was traveling, the Soviets put
out a statement that essentially took a
neutral position even though the Soviet
Union and China were in a formal
alliance. And the Chinese were
absolutely furious. And Xi Jongun left
Moscow early. And when Nikita Kruef, the
Soviet leader, visited China just a few
weeks later, Mao said to him, "Your
statement made the imperialists happy."
And Ma's conclusion was why aren't the
Soviets, why don't they have our back?
Why aren't they more supportive? And his
answer was that it wasn't that the
Soviets were pursuing their interests.
We have our interests. It was that
they're not really communists anymore.
They've gone revisionist. And actually,
to tie it again back to Shiong Shun,
it contributed to Ma's preoccupation
with this idea of class struggle. And he
wanted to figure out a way to make sure
class struggle never went away. and his
crackdown on Xi Jongun in 1962 was
related to his marinating and this
obsession with the importance of class
struggle that was partly inspired by
what he saw as the degradation of the
revolutionary project in the Soviet
Thank you.
[Music]
So, Xi Jang Shan was purged and subject
to 16 years of absolute torment. It's
funny you characterize him as sort of
like the Forest Gump of 20th century
China because of course later on in his
career he was heavily involved in
Guandong and the opening of Shenzen and
these special opportunity zones or
special economic zones which people know
a lot about there. But he spent like
much of the rest of his life essentially
fearing the possibility it seems there's
my reading of your book that the
everpresent risk of sliding back into
cultural revolution type periods and the
cultural revolution per your book it
there were many patterns of it prior to
it it's sort of these purges and
campaigns they existed afterward in I'm
just curious in your view can the party
even today ever be inured against the
potential of reverting ing back into
such a self-destructive environment such
as that or is that always going to be
endemic to the structure of the party
that it could trip into these sort of
intense inward battles that are so
damaging?
>> Yeah, that's a very insightful question.
One piece of evidence to get at what
you're driving at is to look what
Xiinping himself experienced during the
cultural revolution and how he's talked
about it. Xiinping said that when the
cultural revolution began, everyone
believed in it, which was true. So when
it became clear that it was a disaster,
it was profoundly disillusioning. And
Xiinping admitted that he too went
through a period of doubt, but that
precisely because he went through this
time of thinking about why such a
terrible thing could happen. but
nevertheless return to the party's cause
meant that his dedication is more
unshakable than anyone's anyone else's.
And the 1980s in these interviews that I
found that he gave, he talks about how
he saw the 1980s as a time when people
should be even more loyal to the party
because now they could do something. Now
the leftism and the radicalism had gone
away. so you could finally work to bring
China in the right direction. And in
fact, he said that the reason that he
didn't want to make up for lost time and
have fun and make money was because he
wanted to make sure that another
cultural revolution never happened. But
it raises a question, right, which is
how do you stop that from happening? And
so some people who went through the same
thing that Xiinping did, they believe
that China needed the rule of law. It
needed to prevent another strong man
leader from appearing. And Xiinping's
answer was you need to have a party
that's unconstrained. You need to have a
party that's so powerful that it can
stop people who when are given the
freedom to do so take advantage of it
and use it to hurt people. And so for
Xiinping, a lot of people think that
he's a Mauist figure that a lot of what
he's doing has elements that are
reminiscent of the cultural revolution.
And that's certainly true. But as you
said, a lot of what we associate with
the cultural revolution has been part of
the party since the very beginning. And
the question then is so Xiinping, he
wants to use struggle. He wants to use
campaigns, but he also doesn't want
another cultural revolution. Well, what
does that mean? Well, he and people
around him have said that, well, we're
not going to do the tragedy of the
cultural revolution. We're going to
avoid that kind of radicalism. We're
also going to recognize that we lost a
sense of vigilance after Ma's death and
we're going to h find this happy medium.
But what is a happy medium in this
sense, right? Like struggle is not a
legal concept. It's not a clear idea
really. So you can see how in theory
that you would get it just the right
amount, but that in practice it's very
hard. And I think that's one of the
reasons why we're seeing China struggle
to balance the economy and security is
because it's hard to do two things at
once.
>> Yeah. I always thought it was
interesting that in modern China there
there are a lot of portrayals
domestically of the cultural revolution.
So things like historical dramas or in
the threebody problem there's a very
very long section on that and it kind of
indicates exactly what you're describing
which is to some extent Xiinping wants
people to know what happened and to
understand the danger of sliding back
into something like the cultural
revolution. Just on that note, to what
extent do you think Xiinping actually
draws from his father's experience in
terms of his own policy? Or are we sort
of falling into the trap where we think
that all of Chinese politics has to be
dynastic and it's all about family
members succeeding family members? To
what extent is that true? So, Shiong has
a reputation as the best kind of person
that the party could produce, almost
uniquely humane, liberal, pro-reform.
>> And so when Xiinping came to power, a
lot of individuals who knew the family
or knew something about party history
believed that he was going to be like
what their understanding of his father
was. And when he moved in a direction
that disappointed them and in fact was
quite a surprise for them, they were so
so disappointed. And one of the things
that they did was they negatively
contrasted him with his father. One
dissident exiled intellectual in the
United States said that Xiinping is not
the son of Xi Jong, he's the grandson of
Mahatong. So this politicized use of Xi
Jong against Xiinping. And I'm sure that
Xiinping hates it. But then the question
becomes well is Xiinping inspired by his
father as a positive example or as a
negative example. Some people have said
that well Xiinping saw that his father's
liberal policies failed and that's why
he's doing some something completely
different. You know we can't say for
sure but I can say a couple things. One
is that it's interesting it's
interesting that Xiinping's very first
article published in People's Daily was
about the relationship between older
generations in the party and younger
generations. And he said essentially
that we need to respect them. We can
learn so much from them but we would not
respect them if we did exactly what they
did and we never innovate. Right? We
need to move along with the times. And
also I think that at heart what he wants
to do is make sure that the regime
survives and everything he's doing is
for that purpose which means that he is
essentially inheriting the big picture
of what his father wanted which was to
ensure that the party and the party's
interests could persist from one
generation to another. So is he doing
certain things different from what his
father did? Yes. Is it a conscious
rejection of his father? I'm not so
sure. I think maybe he would say that
the heart of what I'm doing is the same
as what my father did, but also we need
to change with the times and it's a
story of the party constantly learning
new things and needing to address new
objective conditions as they appear. And
one last point on this, Xiinping says
that the reason the Chinese Communist
Party survived when other communist
parties did not is because it had this
capacity for change. That it was because
the party could cynicize Marxism and
adapt it to national conditions,
therefore find a Chinese style of
modernization
that they could find this way of a
non-western style of development. So,
it's interesting how he plays with this
dialectic between tradition and
innovation, but in that sense, I think
his thinking here is is a little subtle.
>> Tracy, have I mentioned I can't remember
if I've brought this up. Have I
mentioned to you that I've recently read
the book Moby Deck?
>> Oh my god. Oh my god. Listen,
>> have I mentioned that? Have I mentioned
that?
>> Listeners, let me just tell you,
whenever Joe reads a book, he talks
incessantly about it. So, yes, you have
brought up Moby Dick several times. It's
hard not to read the book about your
book, Joseph, without thinking of the
character Starbucks, isn't it? No, I'm
just kidding. You said that yourself on
on Twitter, and I used this as an excuse
to torment Tracy with bringing up Moby
Dick, but you yourself made that
connection, huh?
>> So, it's not a perfect analogy, right?
Because Starbucks is the first mate and
Xi Jun was sort of the first mate to the
first mate, right? So, he's a rung
further down than Starbucks. And also
the book seems to suggest that while
Ahab is motivated by vengeance.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And Starbucks is somebody who just want
to make wants to make money. Well, Xi
Jun, he was on board with a
revolutionary project, right? Like he
shared many of Mao's views and Dung's
views. So there we we shouldn't
essentialize the difference between
between she and Mao. And also the Pquad,
right? The ship crashed, but the party
has survived, right? the party is still
there. So th those are differences but
>> at the same time it is I think
meaningful to think about the
similarities right. So Starbucks was the
deputy the first mate to Ahab and
>> he knew better but he still allowed
himself to be a victim and by doing that
he doomed himself. he doomed the crew.
And even though he was someone who
recognized that Ahab was the kind of
person who would strike the sun if if
the son insulted him, which really is a
very mauist thing to say, right? Like
Mao really kind of fetishized this idea
of struggle and fighting back and having
a strong personality, he still didn't
really do anything about it. And also
like Xi Jun, Starbucks isn't clearly a
hero or a villain, right? He raises
questions about the morality of what he
was doing as part of this particular
system. Starbucks also didn't really
have legal recourse to removing
Ahab, right? So, there's this one moment
where he thinks about killing him, but
he recognizes that that's a violation of
the law of the ship.
Also, Starbucks is is similar to Xi Jun
in the sense that when he thinks that
something is not going the way he thinks
is right, he remmonstrates but very
carefully in a way that he's almost not
even really remmonstrating because of
just how cautious he is. So, and I'll
say one final thing about this, right?
So, what's interesting about Moby Dick
is the whole crew kind of gets on board
with this crazy idea of hunting this
whale, right? And it kind of reminds me
of this quote by Deng Xiaoping about the
great leap forward, which is that we all
had the fever, right? And it raises this
question like why would people be so
loyal to this person who's so strange
and so eccentric? And I think it's
because this idea of of the adventure
and the thrill and and mission was was
something that spoke to something at at
the heart of their lives. So
>> maybe they're all just trauma bonded.
>> A few thoughts.
I forgot about trauma.
>> Well, you know, it's when you write a
biography, you need to talk about
psychology
>> and the fact that Xi Jun and Xiinping
went through these traumas can't be
ignored and you need to talk about it
and it needs to be addressed.
>> But psychology and history, psychology
and politics are different disciplines
for a reason, which is that you can't
essentialize their behavior down to what
they experienced as children. Right? So
a lot of people thought that everything
Stalin did could be explained by the
fact that he was beaten up when he was a
young person, right? By his father.
>> Oh yeah. The Stalin biographer Stanford
Cotkin. He has this great line. He's
like, "Oh, people say that his father
was abusive and drunk." And he's like,
"Who wasn't abusive and drunk in the
early late 1800s in that area?" So can't
anyway, sorry, keep going. But yes,
that's a good point.
>> Yeah, I'll say one other thing about
this. It's a DH Lawrence wrote chapter
in a book about Moby Dick and he talked
about all this practicality in search of
a mad mad chase and that also really
gets to something at the heart of the
party that we've talked about which is
during the revolution during the great
leap forward during the cultural
revolution you see these goals that are
just utopian and at the same time that
doesn't mean that the party at sometimes
even the same moment sometimes more than
others doesn't also have this very
practical side very flexible side and
these two elements have coexisted from
the very beginning in ways that I think
are meaningful to dwell on too.
>> So, one thing I'm always curious when it
comes to books like these very large
historic projects is how you actually go
about gathering your research and what
sources you're looking at and whether
you're finding new things that
potentially people were unaware of
before. And then just on that note, what
would you say is the biggest
misconception that academics or maybe
people in the West in general tend to
have when it comes to understanding how
the CCP actually works.
>> Yeah. So when you do research on the
Chinese Communist Party, you can't just
go to a couple archives, collect the
material, and write it up. You need to
have a different sense of sensibilities.
You have to be sensitive to the
possibilities, not the limitations, and
recognize that you're going to have to
collect a lot of different types of
evidence and make a mosaic, and you'll
be able to understand certain things
better than others, but that in the
future, people will find new things and
that it's it's an ongoing project.
There's never going to be a definitive
version, but nevertheless, there's
enough that you can do to say in the
interim at least, something meaningful,
something to start a conversation. And
so, for example, a lot of internal
documents, a lot of archives have made
their way to American libraries and
institutions in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
People from the mainland were able to
publish histories outside of censorship,
but also document collections and
memoirs, but you also need to use the
stuff that comes out of mainland China.
So there was a period where party
history journals were really pushing the
envelope. But even the official stuff
like the chronologies and the official
biographies, you can mine those things
for biographical details, but also you
can put it in the context of other
material you've collected and then
suddenly that evidence is meaningful to
you in a way that maybe even the
compilers of it did not expect. And also
I just made a list of every time that Xi
Jun met with a foreigner and then tried
to either speak to that person or go to
their archives. I spoke to the Daly
Lama. I went to the French Communist
Party archives because Xiin went to
France. I went to the archives in uh
Serbia because he went to a big
important Congress in Yugoslavia when it
still existed. That kind of thing. And
so you know what are the what are the
main misunderstandings? Well, one thing
to say is that this isn't always just a
case of Westerners who don't understand
China getting it wrong for cultural
reasons or whatever. But people at the
very heart of this system also
constantly got it wrong. Right? And so,
as I mentioned earlier, these people who
knew the she were totally dumbfounded by
Xiinping when it became clear what kind
of a leader he was going to be, right?
And these were not stupid people. These
were people who had been around the
block over and over and over again. And
the reason these purges happened, the
reason why someone like Shijin, who was
actually quite cautious and quite
clever, why he crashed on the shoulds of
power struggles is because he also
didn't fully understand the
repercussions of what he was doing. So
in that sense, we should keep in mind
just how hard it is to get this system
right. Not just for people on the
outside, but even for people on the
inside, too. That's a great ending.
Joseph Turigan, fantastic book. Really
appreciate you uh coming on OddLotss and
chatting with us.
>> Really interesting conversation. Thanks
so much for having me on.
[Music]
>> Tracy, while we were uh recording that
episode, Joseph mentioned the various
campaigns that they had, the CCP. So, I
went to the Wikipedia page and like I
love some of the names of their
campaigns cuz like some of them are like
sort of straightforward like cleansing
the class ranks campaign kind of obvious
but then like
>> counterattack the right devi
counterattack the right deviationist
reversal of verdicts trend campaign the
criticize Lynn criticize confucious
classic obviously campaign there's
something always very poetic about these
the four pests campaign
>> oh yeah where that one was very sad and
kind of blew up in their face. But I
think you're getting to an important
point, which is a campaign. What was the
second one you mentioned?
>> The Wait, sorry. The counterattack the
right deviationist reversal of verdicts
trend campaign.
>> Sorry. Um
>> that was the gang of four attacking
Diaang who was involved in reversing
verdicts of people who had been
improperly punished during the cultural
revolution.
>> Right. But this is actually important
because it's like what does that mean
exactly? And I think this is kind of
been both a strength and a weakness of
the CCP over time which is that a lot of
these concepts are fuzzy and
everchanging and often they are fuzzy on
purpose so that the leader can exert
control and declare what actually is
anti-right or anti- revisionism or
whatever.
>> No, totally. It is clear. I mean
obviously there's like the however many
year period the formal the 1966 1976
cultural revolution which she the elder
she and the younger she well like truly
like unbelievable levers levels of
personal humiliation and suffering but
it really extended both before that and
afterwards and I really you know it's
clear like it is not easy in a political
system such as that to ever fully guard
against the return of that style of
full-blown politics.
I have one question for you.
>> How many Moby Dick references am I going
to hear on this podcast?
>> Well, and maybe the only the next time
we do an energy one.
>> Okay. All right. I can accept that.
>> Okay.
>> I'd be really impressed if you like work
it into every episode.
>> No, I definitely won't. I just thought
it was very funny in this case that the
author happened to have a lot of an
unusually high level of drawn out
thoughts between one character and Moby
Dick and the author of his book. So, I
had to bring that up. I thought that was
very unexpected and weird.
>> Here, here we go. I'm going to read Moby
Dick as a lens for understanding the
CCP.
>> You should. It's great.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. can
follow me at Tracy Alawway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Joseph Turriian. He's josephigian. And
check out his new book, The Party's
Interests Come First: The Life of Xi
Jang Shun, Father of Xihinping. Follow
our producer, Kerman Rodriguez, at
Kerman Arman, Dash Bennett at Dashbot,
and Kellbrooks at Kalebrooks. And for
more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots.
with the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all of
these topics, including China, 24/7 in
our Discord, discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you want
some recommendations for Chinese
historical dramas, then please leave us
a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
adree. All you need to do is find the
Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcast and
follow the instructions there. Thanks
for listening.
[Music]